# Non-Invasive Technique to Automate General Movements’ Assessment 


### Project Research
Cerebral Palsy (CP) is a neurological condition that is caused by brain damage. Early diagnosis of CP is extremely difficult. However, it can improve the possibility of a patient receiving specific early intervention to optimize neuroplasticity and prevent complications. At the age of six to nine weeks, characteristics of general movements of a normal infant vary from Writhing Movement (WM) type to Fidgety Movement (FM) type. One of the available methods of diagnosing CP is by analyzing fidgety circular movement patterns. General Movements Assessment (GMA) is a non-invasive and cost-effective way of identifying CP. It is being used to diagnose CP, by identifying nerve issues that lead to CP. It is currently being carried out manually by a well-trained physician. The motive of this project is to introduce a novel machine learning model to distinguish circular movements out of the rest of the movements using a Kinect sensor while automating the GMA. A movement dataset was generated by using adults and a recurrent neural network was used for the classification. In accordance with the circular movements identification, this model had a sensitivity (91.3%), specificity (85.7%) and precision (88.45%). Further, a comparison between the accuracy and precision levels, and processing times with respect to different frame rates in identifying circular movements was carried out. This study shows that the frame rate of a video is correlated with the precision of the model. The influence that the processing time has on the accuracy of identification is also studied. The highest level of accuracy (94.4%) and precision (95.0%) was displayed with the increment of frame rate. This model can be used with infant data to distinguish circular fidgety movements from rest of the movements after appropriate training.


###  Project Demonstration
Cerebral Palsy (CP) is considered as the most common movement disability of childhood. Either a set of recorded rotations or 3D coordinates of the body joints can be used for the classification.  

###  Technologies used in project
  -  Frontend - Angular, Akita
  -  Backend - Python, Flask, Flask-RESTful
